vi rnnrncn.

the Eleventh century, is in active operation in
the N ineteenth.

But History differs as much from a Chronicle,
as a finished picture from detaohed sketohes of
groupS, and figures: and yet a thorough know·
ledge of each -part is necessary to make a per·
fect whole. Our historical writers have unfor-
tunately been signally deficient in this. Those
who have had the most perfect knowledge of the
details, have failed entirely in the ‘ensemble3’
those, on the other hund, who have had the ge-
nius to conceive, and plau great historical works,
have seemed to sacrifice facts to theorice-they
have philosophized rather than narrated,-·-nay,
more, they have too osten entered on their la·
bours in the spirit of political or religious par-
tizans,--have not scrupled to pervcrt truth to
hear out a theory, to dispar-age virtue in an ad-
versary-to gloss over crime to screcn their
friends from disgrace. Thus itis that Brady,
Tyrrell, Certe, and authors of that school, are
referred to, but not read; Hume, Lingard, Lord
Lyttelton are read, but cannot be relied on. The
work of Henry, valuable as it is, is un Encyclo-
paedia of historical antiquities, rather than a His·
tory. The author who has approached nearest to
perfection-who has invested History with all tho
oharm of Rornance, and given to Troth the most
attractive garb of Fiction, is Sharon Turner.
And why is thisl Because he has used to good
purpose the Chronicles of the contemporary
writers. He has imbued himself fully with the
spirit of the times. To him these were not merc
dry boneS, the skeletons of History, but were in-
stInct with animation, living, breathing, acting;
they were realities, not merc pictores, or fanciful

delineations. As such he has introduced them τ

 

